Feat(eos_designs): Emit warning when detecting eos_cli_config_gen keys while validating eos_designs (#6403)
aristanetworks/ansible-avd: ansible_collections/arista/avd/roles/eos_designs/docs/how-to/custom-structured-configuration.md

# Custom Structured Configuration

With Custom Structured Configuration the user can override built-in `eos_designs` functionality or add extra knobs to be picked up by `eos_cli_config_gen` role.

There are multiple ways of supplying Custom Structured Configuration and they can all be combined:

> - `structured_config` in `eos_designs` data models

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `structured_config` in AVD Design data models
```

- `custom_structured_configuration` - described in this document

## Overview

AVD `eos_designs` role flow is expected to work as follow:

> 1. from the input variables (inventory, group_vars, host_vars, ...) the `eos_designs` role generates the "structured_config". The `structured_config` and custom_structured_configuration are merged at the end of `eos_designs` processing to generate the final "structured_config" used by `eos_cli_config_gen`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. From the input variables (inventory, group_vars, host_vars, ...) the `eos_designs` role generates the "structured_config". The custom_structured_configuration is merged with this "structured_config" at the end of `eos_designs` processing to generate the final "structured_config" used by `eos_cli_config_gen`.
```

Author: I tried sthing - let me know

# Custom Structured Configuration

With Custom Structured Configuration the user can override built-in `eos_designs` functionality or add extra knobs to be picked up by `eos_cli_config_gen` role.

There are multiple ways of supplying Custom Structured Configuration and they can all be combined:

- `structured_config` in AVD Design data models
- `custom_structured_configuration` - described in this document

## Overview

AVD `eos_designs` role flow is expected to work as follow:

1. from the input variables (inventory, group_vars, host_vars, ...) the `eos_designs` role generates a *structured configuration* object.

>    The `structured_config` inputs in AVD Design data models and custom_structured_configuration occurences are merged at the very end of `eos_designs` processing to generate the final *structured_configuration* used by `eos_cli_config_gen`.

Author: ```suggestion
   The `structured_config` inputs in AVD Design data models and custom_structured_configuration occurrences are merged at the very end of `eos_designs` processing to generate the final *structured_configuration* used by `eos_cli_config_gen`.
```

          structured_config: < dictionary >
```

> See [Connected Endpoints]('../tables/connected-endpoints.md')

Reviewer 2: Does this or any similar links below work for you? It does not take me to the right place (i'm seeing the same issue with 5.7)

Author: oh good catch. wondering why this is not caught by mkdocs when building

Author: it has been broken since we excluded the tables from the repo using the plugins glob so one year.. hehe fun! ok I will fix the link here and make a PR to 5.7. thanks @alexeygorbunov !!

> See [Connected Endpoints]('../data-models.md#connected-endpoints-settings')

Author: ```suggestion
See [Connected Endpoints](../data-models.md#connected-endpoints-settings)
```

          structured_config: < dictionary >
```

> See [Node type common configuration]('../data-models.md#node-type-common-configuration')

Author: ```suggestion
See [Node type common configuration](../data-models.md#node-type-common-configuration)
```

              structured_config: < dictionary >
```

> See [Network Services VRFs configuration]('../data-models.html#network-services-vrfs-configuration) and [Network Services SVIs configuration]('../data-models.html#network-services-svis-configuration')

Author: ```suggestion
See [Network Services VRFs configuration]('../data-models.html#network-services-vrfs-configuration) and [Network Services SVIs configuration]('../data-models.html#network-services-vrf-svis-configuration')
```

> See [Network Services VRFs configuration](../data-models.html#network-services-vrfs-configuration) and [Network Services SVIs configuration](../data-models.html#network-services-vrf-svis-configuration)

Author: ```suggestion
See [Network Services VRFs configuration](../data-models.md#network-services-vrfs-configuration) and [Network Services SVIs configuration](../data-models.md#network-services-vrf-svis-configuration)
```

> See [Network Services VRFs configuration]('../data-models.html#network-services-vrfs-configuration) and [Network Services SVIs configuration]('../data-models.html#network-services-vrf-svis-configuration')

Author: ```suggestion
See [Network Services VRFs configuration](../data-models.html#network-services-vrfs-configuration) and [Network Services SVIs configuration](../data-models.html#network-services-vrf-svis-configuration)
```

#### Example using default prefix

```yaml
custom_structured_configuration_static_routes:
 - prefix: 42.42.42.0/24
   vrf: MGMT
   next_hop: 42.42.42.42

>           - ip_address: 10.2.3.4

Reviewer 2: This line seems wrong

Author: yup .. migrated to find a new list with no primary key and forgot one line. Removing!

    ip_address: 10.3.2.1/21
```

In this example `Ethernet4000` will be added to the `ethernet_interfaces` list in the Structured Configuration and the ip_address will be `10.3.2.1/21` since ip_address was overridden on the later `custom_structured_configuration_prefix`

#### Example with `append` list_merge strategy

```yaml
custom_structured_configuration_list_merge: append
custom_structured_configuration_prefix: [ override_ ]

# RADIUS servers from AVD Design inputs
aaa_settings:
  radius:
    servers:
      - host: 10.10.10.1
        key: <encrypted_key_1>
      - host: 10.10.10.2
        key: <encrypted_key_2>

# Additional RADIUS servers via custom_structured_configuration
# Including same host (10.10.10.1) with same config as in AVD Designs
override_radius_server:
  servers:
    - host: 10.10.10.1
      key: <encrypted_key_1>
    - host: 10.10.10.3
      key: <encrypted_key_3>
      timeout: 5
```

> In this example the `aaa_settings.radius.servers` variable will be read by `eos_designs` the `radius_server` structured configuration will be generated accordingly:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In this example the `aaa_settings.radius.servers` variable will be read by `eos_designs` and the `radius_server` structured configuration will be generated accordingly:
```

```yaml
radius_server:
  servers:
    - host: 10.10.10.1
      key: <encrypted_key_1>
    - host: 10.10.10.2

>       key: <encrypted_key_2>

Reviewer 2: Shouldn't an item for `10.10.10.3` be here?

Author: thats a tough one :) basically it is supposed to be only the output of aaa_settings.radius.servers before the override is applied. I will reword the sentence above

            priority: 3
```

will generate as intended config:

```eos
ip name-server vrf EOS_CLI 192.168.42.10 priority 3
ip name-server vrf MGMT 192.168.42.10 priority 3
ip name-server vrf MGMT 192.168.42.20 priority 2
ip name-server vrf MGMT 192.168.42.30 priority 3
ip name-server vrf MGMT 192.168.42.40
ip name-server vrf MGMT 192.168.42.50 priority 3
ip name-server vrf MGMT 192.168.42.60 priority 2
ip name-server vrf MGMT 192.168.42.70 priority 3
```

- Name servers 192.168.42.40, 192.168.42.60 and 192.168.42.70 are configured in one place only Therefore they are reflected in the intended configuration with their original values (original `eos_designs` List is extended by unique values from both `custom_structured_configuration` sources).
- Name servers 192.168.42.20 and 192.168.42.30 are defined in both `eos_designs` and `custom_structured_configuration` (using the prefix `csc_1_` and `csc_2_` respectively). Since the value of the primary key (`ip_address`) matches, the original data from `eos_designs` is updated with data from `custom_structured_configuration`, resulting in the priority for these name servers being set to 2 and 3 respectively.

> - User `192.168.42.10` is defined in all three data sources (`eos_designs` and `custom_structured_configuration` with prefixes `csc_1_` and `csc_2_`). Since the value of the primary key (`name`) matches in all 3 sources, the original data from `eos_designs` is first updated with data from `custom_structured_configuration` with prefix `csc_1_`. It is then updated again with data from `custom_structured_configuration` with prefix `csc_2_`, resulting in the priority for this name server being set to 3.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Name server `192.168.42.10` is defined in all three data sources (`eos_designs` and `custom_structured_configuration` with prefixes `csc_1_` and `csc_2_`). Since the value of the primary key (`name`) matches in all 3 sources, the original data from `eos_designs` is first updated with data from `custom_structured_configuration` with prefix `csc_1_`. It is then updated again with data from `custom_structured_configuration` with prefix `csc_2_`, resulting in the priority for this name server being set to 3.
```
